>>SEAN STONE: Is your
destiny by design?
Let's enter the Buzzsaw.
[THEME MUSIC]
[EXPLOSION]
>>SEAN: Welcome
to Buzzsaw, where
we cut through the
mainstream narrative
to explore the hidden truths.
I'm your host, Sean
Stone, and with me today
is Richard Beaumont.
He found and ran Kindred
Spirit magazine for 20 years.
Richard is also a student of the
founder of Human Design, Ra Uru
Hu.
He now is the director of Human
Design UK and Human Design
Films, Ltd.
Today he helps us understand
our own human design.
So people might
hear "human design,"
they think some
kind of robotics.
[LAUGHING]
>>SEAN: Tell us
what human design is
and also the origin
story, because it's
quite interesting about how
Ra came to this teaching while
on a visa, as I understand it.
>>RICHARD: A lot of truths
come through revelation.
It was a big shock to Ra when
this information downloaded.
The complexity of
it is astonishing.
I mean, it takes
at least 10 years
to learn the different
sides of human design.
So it's a huge science.
So Ra got a direct download
for eight days, eight nights.
He said it was the greatest
experience of his life,
and he was very
depressed afterwards,
because the world was
mundane once more.
So it's information.
And human design is
something that enables people
to know precisely who they are.
We're all patterns
in a larger program.
And the wonderful thing about
it is that it's verifiable.
So I can look at
a chart, and I can
speak to the person
who has that chart,
and they will
recognize themselves
at a deep level in a way that
no one else can recognize them.
We are who we are, and
we have this picture
of who we are, depending on
what people have said to us,
what our experiences are.
But you can actually
get to the blueprint.
And that's what Human
Design gives you.
>>SEAN: So what
is the difference?
Because many people, for
example, know about astrology,
and there are obviously
different degrees of study
when it comes to astrology
beyond picking up
your horoscope at
the magazine stand
and saying, "Oh, I'm a
Capricorn, and so what's my--
I should look out for
my love today," right?
The idea is that
human design goes
to a level even
deeper than astrology,
if I understand that.
So explain what that
difference would be.
>>RICHARD: We have-- it's
a synthesis of genetics
and hexagrams from the I-Ching.
Astrology gives
us our placement.
We need the birth time
to be able to do a chart.
But it can tell us so much more.
It can tell us about the correct
environment for someone's body.
It can tell us the
motivation of the mind.
It can tell us how you function.
There are four different
types of human being,
just as there are four
different types of blood.
And if you know your
type, and if you know
how you can make a correct
decision and stay with that--
there's a kind of an internal
authority that most of us
have--
life becomes very different.
You then start walking
along your life.
>>SEAN: Well, the four--
>>RICHARD: It's not
just information.
>>SEAN: The four humors, the
four different types of people
reminds me of the four
humors of a lot of the older
alchemical studies.
Right?
There's sanguine, phlegmatic,
this type of thing.
Is that what the four types are?
What are the four
types of personality?
>>RICHARD: It's
really about the aura.
So 75-- 70% of us
are Generators.
In other words, we have an
open and enveloping aura.
So when we walk around, we kind
of overlap with other people,
and we take in what they
have that we don't have.
We take it in as conditioning.
Projectors have a focused
and absorbing aura,
so they can really go
directly into people,
and they're very good as guides.
So the Generators
are the workers.
If you like, the
Generators are the ones
that can get a lot done, because
they've got the power to do it.
You've got-- the founder of
Human Design was a Manifester.
Also an energy type, but
can't keep on putting out
the energy and work.
Manifesters are very specific.
So they're-- there's
about 9% of those.
And they've got a close
and repelling aura.
And then we have
Reflectors, which
have a kind of a nonstick aura.
They're completely open.
There isn't any fixed
life force in them.
And basically, they're
not here to attach.
They're not here to take in
conditioning continually.
So they have an ability to
really know what is going on,
if they're correct.
>>SEAN: And then there's
also the four personalities
or there's four dominant cycles
in a human's life, right,
which does seem to me to
correlate to a certain extent
to Vedic astrology.
The idea is there's a solar
return, Saturn return, Uranus
opposition, and Chiron return?
>>RICHARD: Yes,
we can do a chart
for what we call the weather.
So we can look at
the solar return,
which would be every year.
What's the weather coming?
What are you going to meet
as a conditioning field
in the background energy field?
When you're looking at the
largest cycles, such as Saturn
return, this is something that
sets you up in a different way.
And if you understand the
patterning from the Saturn
return, and you're
in that period,
it can help you immensely
living your life correctly.
So for some people,
Saturn return and Chiron
return are really important,
I mean more so than most.
So again, there are differences.
This is not astrology.
It's a synthesis of all
this information, which is
both scientific and mystical.
But yes, the cycles can be seen.
>>SEAN: Because Human
Design is predicated
on the notion of someone's
birthdate and time, is it
essentially, as with
astrology, figuring out
which planets would influence
different aspects of a person's
life, or even down
to their organs?
I know a lot of the more
ancient Hermetic schools
and astrology schools would look
at the influence, for example,
of the stars on
different organs,
or the different planets
have different relationship
to different organs
in someone's body.
So does that have a place
within Human Design?
>>RICHARD: Yes, you can look
at the astrological matrix
in a chart and look
at it that way.
But for us, there are nine
centers, potential centers,
in a human being.
So some of those centers have
a biological correspondence.
So for example, the G center,
the center of identity,
has a direct
correspondence with liver.
If you look at
the will, the will
has four different
aspects to it,
and you've got the thymus
and the heart muscle
and the gall bladder
and the stomach.
So it's not astrology, and
you can see very clearly
in a chart what the
issues are going
to be physically
for someone if they
have one of these
centers whiten the chart.
This is when they're going to
probably, if they're not aware,
they're going to run
into problems eventually.
>>SEAN: Do you
ultimately take it
as such-- you say
the human design
as though it's programmed.
Do you take this as intimating
that there is no free choice?
At the end of the day, we are
simply destined by our design?
>>RICHARD: We are like
patterns in a program, that's
the way I look at it.
And the program is a
consciousness expansion
program.
And unlike astrology, where
you're looking at birthdate
only, we're looking at
two different dates, two
calculations, one
for the personality
and one for the body.
And so the body is what's
in red in the chart,
and the personality
is what's in black.
And in that sense,
you've got an ability
to understand what
this arranged marriage
is that you're trying to live.
If you make correct decisions,
then you get to live your life.
You get to actually live
it, and what you meet
is exactly what you're
designed to meet.
If you don't make
correct decisions-- oh!
No point talking about--
you're going to live
life at a level that
isn't going to be fulfilling
or satisfying for you.
You'll still live, but the
destiny that you could have had
and the growth in consciousness
you could have had,
it ain't gonna happen.
>>SEAN: A lot of the
spiritual teachings
talk about this notion
that if you do not
make the right decisions,
and essentially you
try to suppress things
or ignore things,
that comes to us
ultimately through tragedy.
Basically, a tragic
event, a traumatic event,
a chaotic event
ultimately occurs
to rectify that which
you have ignored, right?
That's what it reminds me of.
But now, the way you describe
the system and the program,
it reminds me of "The
Matrix," in a sense.
>>RICHARD: [LAUGHING] Yes.
>>SEAN: And some
people are now looking
at this notion of
the entire universe
being essentially an
artificial intelligence
simulation, some kind
of computer simulation.
Do you think Human Design
speaks to that concept,
that this is all a simulation,
that it really is programmatic,
that it could be the design of
a super-intelligent computer?
>>RICHARD: For us, this is
the mechanics of the Maya.
It is the science
of differentiation,
showing each
person's uniqueness.
It's also the
science of awakening.
There is a possibility to wake
up to who you are and live it.
If we-- and that's
not in the program.
So yes, we do see
it's a program,
we do see it's a program
to expand consciousness,
and in terms of the
Maya, it's limited.
The universe has a certain size.
And if you look at the
experiments they've done,
they've got the
edges of the universe
are older than the universe.
It doesn't make
sense, unless you
realize that it's like being in
a womb and we're all connected.
For us, it's through
neutrinos that
can go through matter
and dark matter.
There's a communication
happening.
In that sense, we're all one.
We're not realizing
it, but there
is this communication going on
through neutrinos all the time.
This would be-- so
it's a single entity.
The program is a single
entity, and we're
about 2 and 1/2 months
in its birth cycle,
which is why no one knows
what the hell is going on.
I mean, 2 and 1/2
months as an embryo,
it's not going to know--
>>SEAN: You're saying humans
are 2 and 1/2 months in, or all
of life in the universe?
>>RICHARD: All the
consciousness program.
Yeah.
Humans are part of it.
We're not the biggest part.
The biggest biomass is insects.
I mean, it's all consciousness.
For us, we have
this understanding
that there's crystals
of consciousness
for both the personality
and the body,
and if you could see them, if
you could see the crystals,
you wouldn't see anything else.
It would just be so many.
It's a vast consciousness
network going on all the time.
So that's how we see it.
>>SEAN: Because I think a lot
of our audience, when you speak
about Human Design, they would
have no way of grasping it,
I think we wanted to do
a session with me, where
you can show my chart and
give an analysis so people
can better visualize what
you're speaking about.
>>RICHARD: Sure.
Sure.
Should we do that now?
>>SEAN: Yes.
OK.
So what are we looking at here?
>>RICHARD: Well, this
is the rave mandala.
And here we have all
the hexagrams going
around this amazing wheel.
And if we look at
it as a chart--
so these are all hexagrams
and lines of hexagrams.
Whatever's in red
is unconscious.
You're not aware of it
until it comes out of you.
For example, your critical
awareness is there.
You'll find spelling mistakes
in anything you read.
It's like, that's not right.
And you can't help
but see the mistakes.
It's something that is
very valuable for people,
if they want to
get things right,
to have your awareness there.
But you don't know
you've got it.
You can't help but see it.
So that's the 18th gate here.
When we're looking
at the black, this
is the personality crystal.
This is what's conscious in you.
This is what you're
always aware of.
So for example, there's a
certain adventurism in you,
in terms of life has
going to be worthwhile.
You're prepared
to try things out
until you find something
that's really worthwhile.
And that's here in adventurism
in the 28th hexagram, line
three.
But what I want to
start with is the type,
because there are four types.
And knowing your
type is really key.
It's key and it's simple.
You're a generator.
That's because you have
this red square here.
So you generate energy.
You go to bed when
you're exhausted
would be the best
way, and then you
wake up revived in the morning,
ready to go on and do it
all again.
>>SEAN: Very true.
>>RICHARD: We keep on going.
We've got a sacral.
We can keep on keeping on.
And if we enter into something
that's correct for us,
then we can last.
So for example, this
sacral center here,
this is for you to be
focused and concentrated.
It's the small details.
It's the intensity that you
have in you all the time.
You may not know
you've got it, but it's
part of who you are to
have that intensity in you.
And the small details matter.
You've also got this
14th gate, which
is about empowering
a unique vision.
If you see something creative,
an artist you may like
or something that
really attracts you,
you want to encourage them
and give them juice for that.
And here on the fifth gate, you
have-- this is about timing.
This is about your
ability to tune
into the flow, the pattern of
timing that's right for you.
So you're not going to work
on anyone else's timing.
>>SEAN: [CHUCKLING]
>>RICHARD: I mean, you know,
no matter what happens--
>>SEAN: I thought it was
because I was a Capricorn I
was very stubborn.
[CHUCKLING]
>>RICHARD: Well, you've got part
of-- you're not fully stubborn.
You've got part of the
channel of stubbornness,
but not the full thing.
You're more defiant
than stubborn,
and that comes with this
aspect here, the 1,8 channel.
This is a life force that says--
it's like the Frank
Sinatra song, you know?
"I did it my way."
>>SEAN: That's the
Trump song, too.
>>RICHARD: Is it?
>>SEAN: At his inaugural
ball, that was his song.
>>RICHARD: We will
have a look at Trump
and see later to
see if that's right.
But for you, it's right.
You've got to go your own way.
You're not going to
go anyone else's way.
>>SEAN: But the left
side is very colorful, so
what does that mean?
>>RICHARD: Well,
this is the root.
This is the adrenal energy
here in the brown square,
the adrenal energy, the
pressure to want to improve
and to build up solutions that
can be useful for everyone.
So there's a side of you that
really wants to perfect things
and improve things.
And here in the--
this is the intuition.
This is quite a
strong immune system.
So if people had this
open, they wouldn't
have a strong immune system.
The physical consequences
of how you're designed
are very important.
>>SEAN: Absolutely.
>>RICHARD: Over here
in the head center--
>>SEAN: I have an empty head.
>>RICHARD: You
have an empty head.
>>SEAN: [LAUGHING]
>>RICHARD: So you
don't have-- yes, you
don't have a fixed idea.
You're not here to be
certain intellectually.
You're here to be
intellectual, because you're
filtering all the ideas
that come to you to see
if they're worthwhile or not.
>>SEAN: Right.
>>RICHARD: And this is
something that you do here.
But there's also a
mystical side to it.
You have an interest
in the mystical side,
because occult knowledge
is here in the 61st gate
in the first line as
part of your Jupiter.
So there's a side of you
that wants to know more
about occult knowledge.
And you can end up
getting lost if you--
>>SEAN: Oh, I've
been down that road.
[CHUCKLING]
>>RICHARD: I bet you have.
>>SEAN: So how would my
chart compare to Trump?
You talk about willful people.
I'm sure--
>>RICHARD: Let's
have a look at Trump.
>>SEAN: I'm sure he would
be-- on the right side,
would be very
flush on it, right?
With him.
>>RICHARD: And then
just one last thing.
You have a--
The costume that you wear is
that of what we call a 5,2.
So it's a kind of
seductive side.
It's also a side
where you actually
like to be in your own,
away from people sometimes.
There's a kind of a hermit side,
too, that goes, "Wait a minute,
enough of the world, we're
going to close the door.
That's it."
If we look at Trump--
and you're transpersonal.
You're more aware of people.
Trump isn't.
Trump's a 1,3.
You can see-- so Trump is
going to be self-absorbed.
So he's got an
emotional system that
gives him this
ability to penetrate
any auras in terms of intimacy.
So from his point of
view, he doesn't know why,
but he can get
through to people.
And people that know
him and are around him
can't help but to
be penetrated by him
in terms of feeling
that they've already
got a connection with him.
They don't know why.
>>SEAN: Right.
There's a warmth.
>>RICHARD: There's a warmth.
Yes, this is the warm side.
So he has got this
warm side to him.
And he's emotionally--
this aspect
would be, it's us or them.
It's like very much for America.
"America is what I stand
for, and then there's
the rest of the world."
Because there's a
tribal quality here.
But also, like
George W. Bush, he's
got the channel
of transitoriness.
So one, we know that
he loves to travel.
Two, he knows he's
going to bring crisis--
>>SEAN: [CHUCKLING]
>>RICHARD: --because
crisis always
comes when you go
into something you
haven't done before
for progress and it
doesn't turn out the way you
think it's going to turn out.
So he's got this-- he's a
manifesting generator, which
means he can often hurry into
things and it's not correct.
He should be taking his time and
feeding into the emotional wave
to see how he really
feels about something.
But as a not-self, as
someone lost in his life,
he's going to make
immediate decisions,
and they're not
going to be good.
>>SEAN: I'm sure Trump would
be quite opposite from Obama,
for example.
>>RICHARD: And he's
willful, by the way.
He's also materialistic
and willful,
and he's got his
own fixed ideas.
>>SEAN: Absolutely.
>>RICHARD: He's going
to disagree with you
if you disagree with him.
With Barack Obama,
Obama is a projector.
He only has one life force.
This is the life force
that can make people really
feel strongly about something.
So he's a fantastic
election candidate.
The new way, the better way.
He can really make you feel
it's going to be a better way.
But to be President, it's
going to very much depend
on who's around him.
Because that's the only
life force that he has.
>>SEAN: I see.
>>RICHARD: So it depended on--
and it was a whole new
stage for him at this time.
>>SEAN: It looks to me--
obviously, it's very empty,
and I think many people came
understand that Obama really
was this empty vessel that
people projected-- well, he
projected a certain vision,
they bought into the vision,
and then there was no one
really behind the campaigner.
>>RICHARD: Yes.
He has no fixed identity
any more than Trump does.
>>SEAN: The single life
force being the root chakra.
And I see that
obviously with Obama.
I see it in my own chart.
And how powerful is
this sacral life force?
Because many people who
understand Kundalini,
the idea of the base chakra,
that this is basically
where we began our
journey is basically
from the sacral place,
from that base up.
We have to basically
activate this base
and work from there
using our sexual energy
for creative endeavors, right?
As creators, as generators, as
motivators-- it begins there,
no?
>>RICHARD: The thing about the
chakras is that we've changed.
Since 1781, things have changed.
Human beings have changed.
So there isn't a
direct correlation
to the chakras in
our current design.
To have a sacral isn't--
this is sexual availability.
There is sexual
availability here.
With Donald Trump,
also, intimacy
is an important
part of his life.
With Barack Obama, he
can be over-available,
because he has this open.
So we're all different.
I mean, to be able to see
the difference in someone
is to be able to understand
them and accept them.
That's the joy of Human Design.
It's a science that
you can verify.
>>SEAN: So you would say that
we cannot change our design.
There is no way we could.
But can we change our destiny?
>>RICHARD: Well, everyone
has a potential path
they can walk down.
You can see it in the
nodes of the moon.
So we can see the quality
of the environment
that we're going
to be living in.
Now, to-- when you talk about
destiny, yes, there is--
we can say quite a
lot about destiny.
As I said, you're
here to make demands
on people that want
things from you.
But at the same time, you're
here to bring transformation.
So it's not about
relationships, it's
not about building
something for civilization.
It's not about mental--
fulfilling yourself
through the mind.
It's about transformation.
And so if we put that
information with your chart,
we can say more
about the destiny.
You're here to bring solutions.
You have a genius for
solutions that you may not even
know you've got.
It's unconscious in you.
But you're here-- when
we look at the journey
through your life in the cycles
that you mentioned earlier on,
the Saturn, the Uranus
opposition, and the Chiron,
we can see a movement of how
your life is going to be.
So it's not fixed in terms
of you will have this.
It depends who you meet.
>>SEAN: Precisely.
But so at the end of the day,
though, what you would argue
is that there ultimately is a
background that is inevitable.
There are certain
situations that you
are going to have to deal with
and face, and it's up to you,
obviously, to decide how you
can maximize your potential,
you can minimize your potential.
But inevitably, you
will face certain things
in the course of your life,
based on your destiny.
>>RICHARD: It's like-- you
need to respond because you're
a Generator, so when
someone comes towards you,
and they say, "Do
you want to do this?"
They ask you a question.
And you go, "Hmm."
This energy goes out to
really want to do it.
Energy goes out
towards something.
That's for you.
In that moment, that's for you.
If you don't go
"hmm" and you go,
"Uh, OK," it means you're
going against your own nature
to do it.
>>SEAN: I see.
>>RICHARD: So you can know
from your inner authority--
most people have
an inner authority.
They can know how to
make correct decisions.
And this is the practical
side of Human Design.
If they make the
correct decisions,
they're going to have a life
lived at a much higher level.
>>SEAN: Precisely.
So at the end of the
day, Human Design
is important to help
each of us understand
our own unique nature.
>>RICHARD: Absolutely.
>>SEAN: Well, Human Design
is infinitely fascinating.
I wish we had time to go into
all the aspects of studying
basically our past
as well as our future
and certain predictions.
>>RICHARD: Yes, yes.
>>SEAN: But for
now, I think this
has been a tremendous
insight, and I really
hope that people have
learned from this teaching
to basically, A, decipher
these drawings which
are so illusory
and so complicated,
but now I also understand why
it takes 10 years of study
to understand how to
read one of these charts.
>>RICHARD: Yes, if you're
going to do it properly.
A lot of people are getting
little bits and pieces,
and then there's a kind of a--
people doing Human
Design that don't really
know what they're doing.
So you need to go to
the real professionals.
Otherwise, it's just going
to be mind talk and no idea.
It's going to be real.
>>SEAN: Right, there
is a science to it.
>>RICHARD: Definitely.
>>SEAN: Thank you so much for
joining me today, Richard.
>>RICHARD: My pleasure, Sean.
>>SEAN: I really
appreciate your time.
>>RICHARD: Thank you.
>>SEAN: And there
you have it, folks.
Fascinating insights
from Richard Beaumont.
You may not agree with or
believe everything he said here
today, but I urge
you to check out
his site, humandesign.info, for
his work and more information.
And if you would like
to come to a free forum,
please email him at
office@humandesign.info
with "Gaia TV" in
the subject line.
Remember, the road to
truth is a perilous path
along the buzzsaw's edge, and it
requires constant reassessment.
I'm your host, Sean Stone.
You are the revolution.
[THEME MUSIC]